In this lecture we're going to explore some more templates to get a better feel on how Woo commerce
manages things.
Right now I'm looking at the cart page.
I've added one item to the cart.
There is one noticeable problem.
The checkout button is being spaced improperly.
Unlike last time we can't really change this through P2P code but it's more of a CSX and HCM mail problem.
So we'll have to adjust the templates themselves.
It's rather simple.
Unlike the product page the cart is just made up of template parts so we don't have to worry about every
single little thing like last time.
All cart related simpler parts are placed inside the cart folder.
I'm going to copy this folder from the plug in into our themes Woo commerce folder like so
I'm going to delete all the files except for the.
Proceed to checkout buttoned button P HP template file.
This is the file that will require some modifications to come to this conclusion.
I just did the usual.
I studied the female code and searched through every file until I was able to determine which files
to modify.
It's pretty simple if you open up the template.
It's just this button by itself.
I'm going to modify the class and replace it with the following values Beatty in Beattie and dash block
Beatty and dash L.D. Beatty and dash primary.
This will make the button spaced out evenly.
The button won't be purple anymore but that's fine with me.
That's it for the card template.
Even though the card template has so much more it's basically repeating the same thing.
I'll talk more about that in just a moment.
Let's explore some more templates.
There's a possibility you may want to change the email templates well commerce will send out an email
whenever an action occurs such as a password reset or a new order has been placed.
If you were to go to the admin dashboard and navigate to woo commerce settings emails you'll find all
the templates that are sent out
below you'll see some settings.
If you were to click on a certain email you'll be taken to a page where you can configure the settings
even more.
What you can't do is modify the HDMI all if you want to modify the H2 UML.
Then you'll have to override the email templates.
You can find those inside the email folder
just like last time.
You would simply copy and paste it from the plugin folder to your themes folder in their respective
location.
I'm not going to do this as I'm fine with the e-mail templates.
However testing out email templates is a problem especially with our development environment.
In order to view an email template you will have to receive an email which usually isn't possible on
a local environment.
Of course you can set up an S.M. T.P. server but that's beyond the scope of this course.
It's also a bit complicated.
The next best thing is to test it out on a live host but that can cost money and it takes too long.
Luckily someone made a very simple solution.
Go to the admin dashboard and navigate to plugins add new search for the plugin Woo commerce email test
by Razer web install and activate this plugin
before we can test this plugin.
You may need to create an order.
Simply go to do commerce orders add new and just fill in some dummy data.
I'm going to pause the video and add an order really quick.
Once you filled in some data submitted.
Now we can test the email templates under the commerce menu.
The plugin and we just installed will generate a new sub menu called email test.
Let's check this menu item out.
You'll be taken to a very simple interface.
I'm going to select the order we just created and save it.
Then I'm going to click on the completed order button below
here is what one of the templates would look like if a user opens it in their inbox.
This is a great way to test your templates on a local server without the need for a life server.
I'm going to do something you should never do.
I'm going to open this template from the Wu commerce plugin folder.
The completed order template is the customer completed order dot page 3 file.
I'm going to make a simple modification I'm going to output the text test.
You never want to modify a template inside the Wu commerce plug in as any changes you can make can be
overwritten after an update.
However this is just for an example.
After making this change I'm going to refresh the page.
The text should now be output.
I'm going to remove my changes so that's how you would go about making changes to the email templates
and how to test them.
All right let's move on to something else.
In some situations you won't be able to make changes to the Template themselves even if it may seem
like it.
For example if I were to go to my cart and press checkout I'll be taken to this form to fill out my
billing and shipping details.
A lot of the T email here is broken in addition to this.
You may want to have extra fields or remove some fields you will not be able to modify these fields
through a template.
You'll have to use hooks will tackle both problems first let's fix the formatting issue we have here.
I'm going to inspect the form inside this form.
There is one div tag with the class called to set inside this div tag.
We have two more additional tags with the classes call 1.
The reason the fields are getting squished together is because these two div tags have the call 1 class.
The call 1 class is a bootstrap class that will make an element have a certain width.
If we were to look to the right you'll see that both bootstrap and Wu commerce tried to apply stylings
that conflict with each other.
What commerce is attempting to do is make two columns that are about 50 percent in width.
Now the question is how do we go about attempting this.
Well instead of letting Wu commerce set the whip we'll let bootstrap do that.
We'll have to change the classes used in order to do that.
We'll need to modify the template ourselves.
We already know what classes and a team out to look for the next step is to find the template with the
same HDMI out.
I've already gone ahead and found the template we'll need to make changes to open the checkout slash
form checkout dot P HP template you'll find the div tags with the call 1 classes and the form wrapped
around it.
This is the template we want to modify.
I'm going to copy this file and paste it over to our theme make sure it's placed inside the checkout
directory.
Now we'll just have to make a few adjustments.
First we're going to end the row class to the div tag with the I.D. of customer details
then we're going to change the to enter div tag classes from a call 1 to call 6
the row class.
I'm adding here we'll help bootstrap make sure the two columns fit nicely side by side on multiple resolutions.
Go ahead and refresh the page.
Everything should look nicer now.
The next step is to fix the stylings for the input fields.
Unfortunately if you look at the template you'll notice the individual fields aren't directly generated
here.
Instead they're created dynamically through functions and hooks.
Therefore we'll need to dive into some HP code to accomplish this.
There's already a plugin that does this already but it's always good to understand how these things
work under the hood before you can fully appreciate a plugin.
First we'll need to study the H email to find the correct template to modify.
I've already done this for you.
That template can be found inside the checkout slash form billing copy HP file all the billing form
fields can be found inside the div tag with the class.
Commerce billing fields field wrapper.
Inside this element we have a loop being performed.
Let's break this down line by line the first line here is creating a variable called fields.
Its value is the value returned by the function.
Get check out fields.
This function will return all the fields required for the user to check out.
This will allow for third party plugins to add additional fields if need be.
Right after this.
Each field is loop through using a for each loop.
What we want to focus on is the call to the function.
Commerce form fields.
This function is what we'll take care of generating the input field itself.
We can even check the documentation for this function in the resource section of this lecture.
I provide a link to this function.
Here's what it says outputs a checkout address form field a simple to understand function but not much
documentation is provided.
That's fine.
We can just inspect the code on this page you can click this link to where the function is located at.
Let's go there.
There is quite a bit of code going on here but we don't need to examine much of it to understand what's
going on right away.
You'll notice a variable called defaults is being created.
You don't contain default values for the field.
If they weren't created three of these default settings have the keyword class in them.
We can assume that these have to do with where the classes will be applied.
I've already dug into the code and can't confirm they do indeed get applied as classes two elements
the class key gets applied to the element that is wrapped around each input field the label class key
is the class applied to the label the input class key is the class that gets applied to the input field
itself.
These are the keys that will want to modify.
Now we have to figure out how to pass in the values.
Taking a closer look we can see that the default array gets merged with another variable called args
args is the variable that's passed into the function as the second parameter.
We just need to modify the second parameter of this function back inside the template.
The field variable is what's passed as the second argument to the function.
We'll just need to modify this variable before we do that.
We should copy this template over to our theme since we'll be making changes.
Copy this file over to our theme in the respective directory
next let's modifying the class key and set it to an array.
The value should be an array of classes.
We only need to add one class which is form group
the next key to set is the input class.
This will also be an array of classes.
The only class we'll pass in is form control.
You may be curious as to how I got these classes.
These are bootstrap classes bootstrap structures its form in a similar way to commerce you create a
tag that wraps around the input field the element that gets wrapped around the input field needs to
have the class form group apply to it the input field itself should have the form control class applied
to it.
You can read up on the bootstrap documentation for more info on these classes.
That's all the changes will need to make.
Let's refresh the page and see what we get.
The input field should now look better than before
so we've basically gone over the many ways to modify a template.
You could use either hooks or modify the template itself by copying it over from the plug into your
theme folder before we end this lecture I want to provide one extra tip.
Sometimes you want to display products your own way.
In most cases you'll want to add more options to the way products or sorted and filtered in cases like
these.
You'll most likely want to remove the default sorting option provided by Wu commerce.
Go to the shop page to see what that looks like.
There are dozens of plugins that will remove this dropdown for you but let's do it manually removing
this isn't anything we haven't done before.
We already know that this page is generated using the archive dash product dot page template.
I'm going to open up this template inside this template you'll eventually find a call to the do action
function called Woo Commerce before shop.
Loop right above you'll find this comment for the functions will Commerce calls we already went over
how you would go about verifying all of this.
So we'll just take the comments word for it inside the function's file.
I'm going to call the remove action function and just pass in the info accordingly.
Using the info from the world commerce comment like some
refresh the page to check.
Just like that the sorting is gone.
Nothing really new here but I just wanted to show you this as it's something I find myself doing often.